So the next contract is a for loop.
So this is probably the most
common type of loop oper,
operator that you're going to use in r.
The basic idea is that you have a loop
index which is typically called i,
but if you have many loops you
might say j, k, l, et cetera.
And a loop index is going to go from,
it's going to cover a sequence
of numbers typically in.
integers.
So for example here I've got a for loop.
And it's looping over
the numbers 1 through 10.
So I've created the sequence of
colon operator 1 through 10.
And this for loop is not doing
anything particularly interesting,
it's just printing out the numbers so
printing out i at each iteration.
After the loop is finished it continues
on to the next block of code.
So there's different ways to use a for
loop and the r
is pretty flexible in how you can kind of
index the different type of r objects.
So here I've created a vector a character
with the letters a b c d in it.
And all these four loops are equivalent.
So for example, in the first one, I kind
of done what you might commonly see in
other languages like C
that have four looping.
Here I have an indexed i that I
sequenced through 1 through 4,
I create an imager sequence.
Then I print the i'th element of x,
each time.
So here this loop just prints out a,
b, c, d.
Another thing I could do is use the seek
along function, so seek_along what
it does is it takes a vector as an input
and it creates an integer sequence that's.
That's equal to the length of that vector.
So this is a vector of length 4, so
it's going to create an integer
sequence 1 through 4.
It's exactly the same as, as the previous
sequence where I've got the sequence 1:4.
However, here I generate the sequence
based on the length of the variable x.
So now I'm, my index serial i
is going through this sequence.
It's printing out the i filament of x and
exactly the same behavior occurs.
I print out a, b, c and d.
The third example here, I'm,
I've got a different index variable,
I'm calling it letter, and the index
variable is actually going to be index,
is going to be taking values
from the vector itself.
So there's no reason why the index
variable has to be an integer.
It can take elements from
any arbitrary vector.
So now the for loop is going through
this vector of letters, a,b,c,d.
An it's just going to print out the letter
itself, so now I'm printing out the index
variable, which happens to be equal
to the letters in the vector.
And so these three for
loops are exactly the same so far.
The last version here is, is the,
is the same as the first one except I
haven't included the curly braces,
and so for a single expression if you.
If the for loop only has a single
expression in this body you can
omit the curly braces and
put everything on one line,
which maybe useful sometimes because
it's a little bit more compact.
But it's not my particular style.
For for loops, I generally like
to put the curly braces in,
regardless of how many
elements are in the body.
For loops can be nested so you can have
a for loop inside of a for loop, so
the common thing for example, and and is,
is with a matrix that has two dimensions
and then you might want to loop over
the rows and then loop over the columns.
So here the outer loop the ought with the
i index is seek, is looping over the rose.
And I'm using a function that's called
seq_len, so, the idea is that,
it takes, in, seq_len takes an integer,
which in this case happens to
be the number of rows in x, and then it
creates an integer sequence out of that.
So this particular matrix has two rows, so
it's going to create
the sequence of 1 to 2.
For example, similarly the the nested loop
with the j index is using the number of
columns to create a sequence so
this matrix has three columns, and so
the seq_len function is going to
create an integer sequence 1 through 3.
So the, so this doubling nested for
loop, is basically printing out
all the elements of the matrix.
So one thing to be careful with,
with nested for
loops is that it's going beyond
2-to-3 levels, while it's
theoretically okay in r, it makes reading
the code a little bit difficult to do.
And so
if you're reading code that has three or
four nested for loops it gets difficult
to understand what's, what's going on.
Sometimes that's the logical thing to do,
but
many a times there's ways to get around
that, for example, by using functions.